doc/source/file-format.rst, before:

Profile File
============

An environment profile is serialized as a `yaml <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML>`_ file on disk.

.. hint::

   yaml is an human readable file format that allow to define tree hierarchies
   as `key:value` pair, where the `value` can also be a `key:value` pair and so on ...

Here are the rules defining an environment profile file, files not matching
those rules are discarded:

- The file CAN have an abitrary name.
- The file extension MUST be ``.yml``.
- The file MUST NOT be empty.
- The file MUST have a ``__magic__`` root key with a value starting by ``kloch_profile``.

The content of the file is then defined as:

+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ➡parent        | :                                                                                            |
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ⬇key           |                                                                                              |
+================+=================+============================================================================+
| ``identifier`` | **required**    | yes                                                                        |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **type**        | `str`                                                                      |
|                +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **description** | unique arbitrary chain of character used to retrieve a profile             |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``version``    | **required**    | yes                                                                        |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **type**        | `str`                                                                      |
|                +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **description** | arbitrary chain of characters indicating the version of this profile       |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``base``       | **required**    | no                                                                         |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **type**        | `str`                                                                      |
|                +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **description** | optional ``identifier`` of the profile that must be inherited              |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``launchers``  | **required**    | yes                                                                        |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **type**        | `dict`                                                                     |
|                +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **description** | configuration of each launcher                                             |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Inheritance
-----------

As explained in :doc:`usage` it's possible to merge profiles "on top
of each other" using the ``base`` key, or from the CLI.

.. important::

   Only the content of the ``launchers`` root key is merged with the other profile.

Assuming ``profile-B`` is declaring a ``base: profile-A`` then the merge will
happen as follow:

- keep all root keys of ``profile-B`` that are not the ``launchers`` key.
- merge the ``launchers`` as ``profile-A + profile-B``

By default a merge actually correspond to only keeping ``profile-B`` value (override).
Check the below `tokens` section to see how you can use other merge rules.

Tokens
------

All keys in the ``launchers`` root key can make use of tokens.

A token is a specific
chain of characters that is removed (resolved) in the final config, but allow to
be replaced by a dynamic value or provide contextual information to the key.

Merge Tokens
____________

Those tokens indicate how the value of the key must be merged with a "base"
value of similar type.

In the context of environment profile it indicate how to merge the key/value pair
of the current profile with the value of the profile specified in ``base``.

A merge token:

- MUST only appear in keys
- MUST be prefixed to its key
- CAN be optional

The following merge tokens are available:

+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| token              | description                                                     |
+====================+=================================================================+
| ``+=``             | indicate the key's value should be appended to the base's value |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``-=``             | indicate the base's key should be removed if it exist           |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| `unset`            | no token indicate the key's value replace the base's value      |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+

.. tip::

   The logic imply that if you have a "A key"  with a ``+=`` token, but
   it's parent "B key" has not, then the "A key" token is useless.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      config:
         +=packages_paths:
            - /foobar

      # ^ is the same as ∨
      config:
         packages_paths:
            - /foobar

      # this is probably what is intended
      +=config:
         +=packages_paths:
            - /foobar


Launchers
---------

+---------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ➡parent             | :launchers                                                                                     |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ⬇key                |                                                                                                |
+=====================+=================+==============================================================================+
| ``{launcher name}`` | **required**    | no                                                                           |
+---------------------+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                     | **type**        | `dict`                                                                       |
|                     +-----------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                     | **description** | a registred launcher name with its configuration                             |
+---------------------+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

List of available launchers:

.. exec-inject::

   import kloch.launchers

   launchers = kloch.launchers.get_available_launchers_classes()
   txt = "\n- ".join([""] + [f"``{launcher.name()}`` : {launcher.summary()}" for launcher in launchers])
   print(txt)

.. exec-inject::
   :filename: exec-launchers-doc.py


Examples
--------

Assuming the file structure:

.. container:: columns

   .. container:: column-left

      .. literalinclude:: demo-fileformat/profile-beta.yml
         :language: yaml
         :caption: ./profiles/beta.yml

   .. container:: column-right

      .. literalinclude:: demo-fileformat/profile.yml
         :language: yaml
         :caption: ./profiles/prod.yml


We execute the following command:

.. code-block:: shell

   kloch resolve knots:echoes --profile_paths ./profiles/

.. exec_code::
   :hide_code:
   :filename: demo-fileformat/exec-merge.py
   :language_output: yaml

----

**References**

.. [1] https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.path.html#os.path.expandvars
.. [2] ``:`` on UNIX, ``;`` on Windows
.. [3] There was multiple way of doing it. See `rez ASWF slack discussion <https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0321B828FM/p1714383583013449>`_
.. [4] with https://docs.python.org/3.9/library/pathlib.html#pathlib.Path.resolve

Commit message:

refacto(launchers): move auto doc at filesyntax level
we had the filesynatx documentation for launchers at their python API level which was not correct.

We simplify the launcher objects as not being aware they are used in a file format and move that documentation in a dedicated module.

we add quick assertion tests to ensure the developer did not added a new launcher without adding its doc

doc/source/file-format.rst, after:

Profile File
============

An environment profile is serialized as a `yaml <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML>`_ file on disk.

.. hint::

   yaml is an human readable file format that allow to define tree hierarchies
   as `key:value` pair, where the `value` can also be a `key:value` pair and so on ...

Here are the rules defining an environment profile file, files not matching
those rules are discarded:

- The file CAN have an abitrary name.
- The file extension MUST be ``.yml``.
- The file MUST NOT be empty.
- The file MUST have a ``__magic__`` root key with a value starting by ``kloch_profile``.

The content of the file is then defined as:

+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ➡parent        | :                                                                                            |
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ⬇key           |                                                                                              |
+================+=================+============================================================================+
| ``identifier`` | **required**    | yes                                                                        |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **type**        | `str`                                                                      |
|                +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **description** | unique arbitrary chain of character used to retrieve a profile             |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``version``    | **required**    | yes                                                                        |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **type**        | `str`                                                                      |
|                +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **description** | arbitrary chain of characters indicating the version of this profile       |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``base``       | **required**    | no                                                                         |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **type**        | `str`                                                                      |
|                +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **description** | optional ``identifier`` of the profile that must be inherited              |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``launchers``  | **required**    | yes                                                                        |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **type**        | `dict`                                                                     |
|                +-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                | **description** | configuration of each launcher                                             |
+----------------+-----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Inheritance
-----------

As explained in :doc:`usage` it's possible to merge profiles "on top
of each other" using the ``base`` key, or from the CLI.

.. important::

   Only the content of the ``launchers`` root key is merged with the other profile.

Assuming ``profile-B`` is declaring a ``base: profile-A`` then the merge will
happen as follow:

- keep all root keys of ``profile-B`` that are not the ``launchers`` key.
- merge the ``launchers`` as ``profile-A + profile-B``

By default a merge actually correspond to only keeping ``profile-B`` value (override).
Check the below `tokens` section to see how you can use other merge rules.

Tokens
------

All keys in the ``launchers`` root key can make use of tokens.

A token is a specific
chain of characters that is removed (resolved) in the final config, but allow to
be replaced by a dynamic value or provide contextual information to the key.

Merge Tokens
____________

Those tokens indicate how the value of the key must be merged with a "base"
value of similar type.

In the context of environment profile it indicate how to merge the key/value pair
of the current profile with the value of the profile specified in ``base``.

A merge token:

- MUST only appear in keys
- MUST be prefixed to its key
- CAN be optional

The following merge tokens are available:

+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| token              | description                                                     |
+====================+=================================================================+
| ``+=``             | indicate the key's value should be appended to the base's value |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``-=``             | indicate the base's key should be removed if it exist           |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| `unset`            | no token indicate the key's value replace the base's value      |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+

.. tip::

   The logic imply that if you have a "A key"  with a ``+=`` token, but
   it's parent "B key" has not, then the "A key" token is useless.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      config:
         +=packages_paths:
            - /foobar

      # ^ is the same as ∨
      config:
         packages_paths:
            - /foobar

      # this is probably what is intended
      +=config:
         +=packages_paths:
            - /foobar


Launchers
---------

+---------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ➡parent             | :launchers                                                                                     |
+---------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ⬇key                |                                                                                                |
+=====================+=================+==============================================================================+
| ``{launcher name}`` | **required**    | no                                                                           |
+---------------------+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                     | **type**        | `dict`                                                                       |
|                     +-----------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                     | **description** | a registred launcher name with its configuration                             |
+---------------------+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

List of available launchers:

.. exec-inject::

   import kloch.launchers
   from kloch.filesyntax._doc import LauncherDoc

   launchers = kloch.launchers.get_available_launchers_classes()
   txt = "\n- ".join([""] + [f"``{launcherdoc.launcher.name}`` : {launcherdoc.summary}" for launcherdoc in LauncherDoc.iterate()])
   print(txt)

.. exec-inject::
   :filename: exec-launchers-doc.py


Examples
--------

Assuming the file structure:

.. container:: columns

   .. container:: column-left

      .. literalinclude:: demo-fileformat/profile-beta.yml
         :language: yaml
         :caption: ./profiles/beta.yml

   .. container:: column-right

      .. literalinclude:: demo-fileformat/profile.yml
         :language: yaml
         :caption: ./profiles/prod.yml


We execute the following command:

.. code-block:: shell

   kloch resolve knots:echoes --profile_paths ./profiles/

.. exec_code::
   :hide_code:
   :filename: demo-fileformat/exec-merge.py
   :language_output: yaml

----

**References**

.. [1] https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.path.html#os.path.expandvars
.. [2] ``:`` on UNIX, ``;`` on Windows
.. [3] There was multiple way of doing it. See `rez ASWF slack discussion <https://academysoftwarefdn.slack.com/archives/C0321B828FM/p1714383583013449>`_
.. [4] with https://docs.python.org/3.9/library/pathlib.html#pathlib.Path.resolve
